So here is a larger framework for
content strategy beyond activities,
this sort of divides
things up a little bit.
So if we think about it in terms of
content design and systems design,
where systems design is really
providing the foundation
of our content strategy activities.
The role of content strategy throughout
any project process and throughout,
in fact, the content life cycle beyond
project which is in terms of maintenance
is to define content.
Make content recommendations,
prioritize the content in terms of how and
when it will be presented
in the digital experience.
Integrate the content activities
that are happening across teams.
Systematize those activities so
that we know what to expect, when to
expect it, whose roles are responsible.
And from a content perspective,
what kind of model we're using for
content reuse, and
then measure its success.
So let's dig into that
just a little bit more.
So content design is a relatively new term
that was introduced by Sarah Richards
in the UK.
If you visit gov.uk ever,
just as a sort of point of interest,
this was the British
government made a decision
that they were going to
completely digitize.
Or make government services
digital friendly, basically.
So if you've ever tried to like, go and
figure out can I renew my driver's license
online or how do I do this
thing through the government?
It is a nightmare experience
just about anywhere in the US.
And the UK determined we are, and
they had sponsorship from this right from
the top, that we are going to completely
redesign our digital services
around user needs specifically.
So if you go to gov.uk, what you will see
is that everything is based on tasks.
And this has become sort of like the holy
grail for content strategists everywhere
because now we're not looking
at this like gorgeous marketing.
The UK's super awesome website.
It is all around the user experience.
So Sarah introduced this term,
content design, to mean using data and
evidence to give the audience what they
need, at the time they need it, and
in a way that they expect.
Which, as far as I'm concerned, is how we
should be approaching the ideal digital
experience in any platform for
any tool anywhere on the internet.
So when we think about the editorial side
of things, this is really when we're
talking about what the content is,
what is the substance of that content.
What's the meat in our content sandwich.
These are questions that you,
that often times in marketing and
brand will tackle, what is their mission?
Who are our target audiences for
this content?
What's our point of view with the content?
What are brand and
language standards or legal
requirements do we need to comply with?
What's our voice and tone?
And then what's our publishing cadence?
So that was a question about amount of
content if we are gonna be regularly
publishing content, like news or
blog posts, or system updates.
How often do we need to be
thinking about content changes?
And what kind of resources do we
need to allocate towards that?
And on the flip side, if we don't have
resources to allocate towards it,
then how does that have an impact
on our publishing cadence?
Okay?
And then this is from
the experience design perspective.
And hopefully, folks that work
with experienced designers,
who do experience design
recognize some of these questions.
What are users needs and
preferences, not just who are they,
but what do they need and what do
they prefer when it comes to content?
What does our ecosystem look like?
What are their journeys?
Not necessarily just
the journeys that we design, but
the journeys that they're actually taking.
What formats will our content take
across the digital experience?
How will our design
patterns shape our content
across different screen sizes and beyond?
And what metrics will we use
to measure our performance?
So these are all questions that content
strategy in the center as a practice and
with all those activities that we
discussed begin to tie together
the answers to these questions.
Because when you make
a decision about experience,
you're having an impact on editorial and
vice versa, okay?
All right, let's look at systems design.
This is the dictionary
definition of systems design,
which is the process of defining
the architectural modules and data for
a system to satisfy
specified requirements.
So, if in content design,
the requirements are being set.
We also need to have systems designed to
make sure that they're being delivered
upon as needed.
And that requires architecture,
it requires appropriate data
to be attached to it, etc.
So, this is where we come
into our contents structure.
How are we organizing the content for
browse-and-find?
This is also a part of experience.
But it is a structural question that can
and should be addressed in addition or
in concert with what
are the metadata frameworks,
taxonomy and
content models that we're using.
To categorize and reuse content so that
the machines can pay attention to it and
do what they need to do with it.
What tags are we using on our
content that are most intuitive for
users as they are sorting
through the content?
How are we going to structure it for
future reuse?
And then what requirements do we need
to be considering for our content for
personalization, dynamic delivery, or AI?
We can have a little chat about AI
later if you want to in preparation for
all the stuff I knew
was gonna be thrown at.
Did some learning about it and
I came to the conclusion that no
one I know is ready for AI [LAUGH].
And then finally the systems
that we discuss in process.
One of the things I hear a lot from the
folks in my workshops is that they really
have little to no control over what
the process looks like when it comes to
content.
The very least that we can do is try to
map our workflow to identify where content
is falling through the cracks and
begin to have that conversation
with our larger team.
And we're lucky at because we're often
called in to design systems like this.
Where we are making recommendations about
workflow, and models, and roles, and
responsibilities, and
governance frameworks and so on.
So that is a part of
the content strategy process.
I'd say nine times out of ten.
When I talk to folks in workshops,
they are focused more on the front lines
of content and
not necessarily responsible for
what's happening to move it
through the organization.
Which can be frustrating.